 What are your strengths?
A:  your ability to learn quickly for example I never worked before in C# & silverlight platform, even though I managed to grasp it quickly and performed my best from the beging, developed demo projects which brought new projects to the compan, positive attitude –  if the timeline if given and if I make my commitments, I will do my best to make sure that I reach the roadmap with timeline, Work as a team in group -  work with common code – co-ordination etc. Main thing is the confidence over the time that I can learn any technology as basics are good.

 What is your greatest weakness?
A 1) A lack of experience (not ability) on your part in an area that is not vital for the job.  2) sometimes I spend little too much time on minor things to make sure that it is perfect.  At some time you need to move on to meet the requirements, but I can’t stop my self from doing that. But over the time, I have tried to prioritize the issues, and I have learned giving time to the problem as per their importance and priority.

 Why do you want to leave your current employer?
A: I am looking for a new challenge, more responsibility, experience and a change of environment.  Also want to pursue the career path which doesn’t have any confided scope. Limited scope of growth and exposure to the new technologies/software can be given as one of the reasons. I am interested in a job with more responsibility, and I am very ready for a new challenge

Why should I hire you?

I MEET DEADLINES
I DELIVER WHAT I PROMISE
I MAKE MY TEAM/COMPANY PROUD OF MY WORK

I have done this job in high impact and high stakes areas and nailed it.
As you look ahead to potential career opportunities, what are the “must have” criteria that you will be using to determine which opportunity is the right one for you? 
1. The place where I can unleash my creativity power.
2. Place where I can be one of the technology leaders
3. Place that I have passion to be in like Microsoft (since I used DOS at 1998 I started dreaming to work there)

-Tell me something about yourself.
-Tell me about the last/current project you are working on .
-Tell me about the most interesting project you have worked on.
To address last 2 questions above, I would recommend providing interviewer with a very high level overview of your project(like you would explain your project to a 5 year old) and then pausing and asking them if they would like to dive into about any particular part of the project then go into technical details.
Again, please prepare these questions as thoroughly as you can, as it is the only guaranteed part of this whole interview exercise and completely in your control


